
# Dash Perfect

## A retro cave-like game trainer turned into a puzzle

Coding a cave-like game (Boulder Dash or Supaplex) when I learn a new language or an SDK is a tradition. This time it's SGDK. Starting with [Dashy](https://www.lexaloffle.com/bbs/?uid=46153), made for Pico8, I started adding 'twists'. For example, Dashy is coded as an old Type-In Magazine program listing, made to be typed by hand, graphics included. For Dash Perfect I made the game into a turn-based puzzle.

Dash Perfect was made to work with caves generated by [gendash](https://github.com/gutterpunk/gendash), which are based on the classic cave-like games physics, but that is deterministic as a whole at play time, unlike games like Boulder Dash.

### How is it different than retro cave-like games?

While the caves generated are compatible with Boulder Dash's mechanics, they are not compatible with the game itself. Boulder Dash uses a deterministic random generator for it's cave, but not for gameplay. Two examples comes to mind:

- Boulder pushing/grabbing: In Boulder Dash there is a 1 in 8 chance of actually pushing a rock when the player move. This cause the character to "skid" randomly when trying to push a rock, which can't be done in puzzle form, not without some burdensome graphical cues and rules.

Boulders being so important in Boulder Dash, it means that no brute force solvers can find the 'best' solution for a board, applying the 1 in 8 chances to every pushes and would output a probablity at best.

- Amoeba grow randomly. While I didn't implement them in the puzzle yet, they will likely be completely different than in the base game once I do because of this property.

Other mechanics from Supaplex comes to mind as well.

### So this isn't a Boulder Dash/Supaplex clone?

No, it's a puzzle game based on the mechanics of those games. Each boards has been generated (with good old non-ai Iterative Deepening, like a chess solver) and include the best possible solution. The game is presented as a trainer for retro games, and many of the mechanics it relies on would work in the original games, but some others are not possible.

Pushing objects is instant, which makes a big difference, but other mechanics like walking beside enemies or playing with the board's refresh also work in the originals.

## Credits

The space background: https://deep-fold.itch.io/space-background-generator
